README.md, before:

# Prospect

Also known as "The Cycle: Frontier".

## Features

TBD

## Running locally

> ![NOTE]
> If you've already done all steps previously, you can skip to Step 7.

### 1. Prerequisites

Before you start, you'll need the following software downloaded and installed:

1. [MongoDB Community Edition](https://fastdl.mongodb.org/windows/mongodb-windows-x86_64-8.0.4-signed.msi).

1. [Latest `Prospect.Server.Api`](https://github.com/deiteris/Prospect/releases) from the Releases section

1. [.NET Runtime 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/thank-you/runtime-8.0.12-windows-x64-installer) installed.

1. A compatible The Cycle: Frontier game client. The server works with:

   1. The latest version from [Steam](https://steamcommunity.com/app/868270).

   1. Season 2 client downloaded from SteamDB using a depot downloader. For example, [version 2.7.2](https://steamdb.info/depot/868271/history/?changeid=M:4623363103423775682).

### 1. Unpack `Prospect.Server.Api`

Use your favorite ZIP archiver and unzip the `Prospect.Server.Api.zip` downloaded from this repository.

### 3. Patch hosts

To be able to connect to the locally running server, you must replace the IP address of `2EA46.playfabapi.com` that the game uses. Do the following:

1. Open Notepad as Administrator.

1. Click **File** > **Open...** and select `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`.

1. At the end of the file, add `127.0.0.1 2EA46.playfabapi.com` on a new line.

### 4. Generate and import SSL certificate

> ![IMPORTANT]
> Do not share the generated certificate! Generated certificate includes a private key that may be used to generate other certificates and compromise your security.

A connection to the server is served over a secured connection. The server uses self-signed certificate that must be added to trusted authorities in order for the game
to successfully communicate with the local server. Do the following:

1. Open the folder with `Prospect.Server.Api`.

1. Double-click `generate_ssl.exe`. `certificate.pfx` will appear in the same folder.

1. Double-click `certificate.pfx`. The Certificate Import Wizard will open:

    1. Select **Current User** under Store Location and click **Next**.

    1. Leave **File to Import** unchanged and click **Next**.

    1. Leave **Password** empty and click **Next**.

    1. Select **Place all certificates in the following store** > **Browse...**. Choose **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** and click **OK**. Click **Next**.

    1. Click **Finish**. A Security Warning popup may appear, make sure it specifies `2EA46.playfabapi.com` certification authority and click **Yes**.

### 5. Add `steam_appid.txt` to the game

1. Open the folder with The Cycle: Frontier and navigate to **Prospect** > **Binaries** > **Win64**.

1. Right-click in the folder > **New** > **Text Document**, and name it `steam_appid.txt`.

1. Open `steam_appid.txt` and enter `480`.

1. Save and close the file.

### 6. Create a game shortcut with

1. Open the folder with The Cycle: Frontier and navigate to **Prospect** > **Binaries** > **Win64**.

1. Right-click `Prospect-Win64-Shipping.exe` > **Create Shortcut**.

1. Right-click the created shortcut > **Properties**.

1. In the **Target** field, add the following parameters after the quote ` -empty -server -log -windowed -noeac -nointro -steam_auth PF_TITLEID=2EA46`. Note the space after the quote.

1. Move the shortcut to desktop.

### 7. Run the server

Now you are all set! Open the folder with `Prospect.Server.Api` and run `Prospect.Server.Api.exe`.

### 8. Run the game

Once the server is running, open The Cycle: Frontier using the shortcut you've created before.

### Troubleshooting and FAQ

#### How to remove the certificate?

If you've installed the certificate for the **Current User**:

1. Open **Start** and enter `certmgr.msc`.

1. Expand **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** and select **Certificates**.

1. Find `2EA46.playfabapi.com`, right-click it > **Delete**.

If you've installed the certificate for the **Local Machine**, repeat the same steps but instead open `certlm.msc`.

## Development

TBD

Commit message:

Add `generate_ssl.py` source

README.md, after:

# Prospect

Also known as "The Cycle: Frontier".

## Features

TBD

## Running locally

> ![NOTE]
> If you've already done all steps previously, you can skip to Step 7.

### 1. Prerequisites

Before you start, you'll need the following software downloaded and installed:

1. [MongoDB Community Edition](https://fastdl.mongodb.org/windows/mongodb-windows-x86_64-8.0.4-signed.msi).

1. [Latest `Prospect.Server.Api`](https://github.com/deiteris/Prospect/releases) from the Releases section

1. [.NET Runtime 8](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/dotnet/thank-you/runtime-8.0.12-windows-x64-installer) installed.

1. A compatible The Cycle: Frontier game client. The server works with:

   1. The latest version from [Steam](https://steamcommunity.com/app/868270).

   1. Season 2 client downloaded from SteamDB using a depot downloader. For example, [version 2.7.2](https://steamdb.info/depot/868271/history/?changeid=M:4623363103423775682).

### 1. Unpack `Prospect.Server.Api`

Use your favorite ZIP archiver and unzip the `Prospect.Server.Api.zip` downloaded from this repository.

### 3. Patch hosts

To be able to connect to the locally running server, you must replace the IP address of `2EA46.playfabapi.com` that the game uses. Do the following:

1. Open Notepad as Administrator.

1. Click **File** > **Open...** and select `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts`.

1. At the end of the file, add `127.0.0.1 2EA46.playfabapi.com` on a new line.

### 4. Generate and import SSL certificate

> ![IMPORTANT]
> Do not share the generated certificate! Generated certificate includes a private key that may be used to generate other certificates and compromise your security.

A connection to the server is served over a secured connection. The server uses self-signed certificate that must be added to trusted authorities in order for the game
to successfully communicate with the local server. Do the following:

1. Open the folder with `Prospect.Server.Api`.

1. Double-click `generate_ssl.exe`. `certificate.pfx` will appear in the same folder.

1. Double-click `certificate.pfx`. The Certificate Import Wizard will open:

    1. Select **Current User** under Store Location and click **Next**.

    1. Leave **File to Import** unchanged and click **Next**.

    1. Leave **Password** empty and click **Next**.

    1. Select **Place all certificates in the following store** > **Browse...**. Choose **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** and click **OK**. Click **Next**.

    1. Click **Finish**. A Security Warning popup may appear, make sure it specifies `2EA46.playfabapi.com` certification authority and click **Yes**.

### 5. Add `steam_appid.txt` to the game

1. Open the folder with The Cycle: Frontier and navigate to **Prospect** > **Binaries** > **Win64**.

1. Right-click in the folder > **New** > **Text Document**, and name it `steam_appid.txt`.

1. Open `steam_appid.txt` and enter `480`.

1. Save and close the file.

### 6. Create a game shortcut with

1. Open the folder with The Cycle: Frontier and navigate to **Prospect** > **Binaries** > **Win64**.

1. Right-click `Prospect-Win64-Shipping.exe` > **Create Shortcut**.

1. Right-click the created shortcut > **Properties**.

1. In the **Target** field, add the following parameters after the quote ` -empty -server -log -windowed -noeac -nointro -steam_auth PF_TITLEID=2EA46`. Note the space after the quote.

1. Move the shortcut to desktop.

### 7. Run the server

Now you are all set! Open the folder with `Prospect.Server.Api` and run `Prospect.Server.Api.exe`.

### 8. Run the game

Once the server is running, open The Cycle: Frontier using the shortcut you've created before.

### Troubleshooting and FAQ

#### How to remove the certificate?

If you've installed the certificate for the **Current User**:

1. Open **Start** and enter `certmgr.msc`.

1. Expand **Trusted Root Certification Authorities** and select **Certificates**.

1. Find `2EA46.playfabapi.com`, right-click it > **Delete**.

If you've installed the certificate for the **Local Machine**, repeat the same steps but instead open `certlm.msc`.

#### `generate_ssl.exe` is flagged as a virus

`generate_ssl.exe` is a Python application packed with PyInstaller and some anti-viruses may flag it as a virus.
This application is a simple certificate generator and you can find its source code in `utils/generate_ssl.py`.

## Development

TBD
